---
layout: post
title: What Makes An Engineer
---
I've done about 200 technical interviews. With so many under my belt you'd be inclined to think that I'm incredible at technical interviews. 

I should illuminate on one caveat, I was the interviewer. I've worked at a few startups and one of the jobs that is often pushed to the non-technical employees in the early stages, is recruiting. 

It usually happens when a deadline or two is missed. The engineering team is strapped. One more iOS developer or front-end engineer is all we need, they say. If they're lucky, their venture firm has a recruiting partner and can get back to them in minutes based on a query. Oh 3-5 year experienced front-end dev making under $200k and has been trying to move to small company from the behemoth he's at - here are 5 people you should meet next week. Although chances are if they aren't working with a so-called 'full service' venture firm their strapping it. The first BD hire is jumping on Angelist and LinkedIn to swipe right on the masses of github profiles.

At some point or another I was told never to interview bootcamp graduates. Then a met a few, a few amazing graduates. A few that were beating the CMU, Stanford, MIT crowd. Not beating because they were more intelligent. Just slightly more polished, slightly more "I can learn that, debug that, work with that" hustle. So logically, I'm now attending a bootcamp.

For the sake of personal gratification and interview preparation of others, here are the technical interview questions I would ask (but never knew the answer). Followed by their answers which I can now solve.

"A ladder is n steps. You can take either 1 or 2 steps to reach the top. How many combinations of steps can you take. **if there is a solution** Ok now use recursion."

For any engineer who learnt recursion in a CS department setting, the answer is a creaming "Fibonacci sequence". 

The Fibonacci numbers are generated by setting F0=0, F1=1, and then using the recursive formula

Fn = Fn-1 + Fn-2

to get the rest. Thus the sequence begins: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, ... This sequence of Fibonacci numbers arises all over mathematics and also in nature.So 


{% highlight js %}

{% endhighlight %}



